"""
Problem Statement - assignment 1

Github Link : https://github.com/Gunashekar080/api-to-sqlite-project


Problem Statement - assignment 2

Q1) Ratings

LLM - A
Deep Learning - B
AI - A
ML - A


Q2) High-Level Architecture of an LLM Chatbot

The modern approach to building LLM apps is to treat the LLM as a reasoning engine, not a database.

Key Components:

1. The Orchestrator:
   This is the central application logic (often built using frameworks like LangChain or LlamaIndex).
   It receives the user's message, decides what tools to use, and manages the flow of data between
   the database and the LLM.

2. The Embedding Model:
   Before the system can read your data, it must convert text into numbers (vectors).
   Models like OpenAI's text-embedding-3 or open-source equivalents do this.

3. Vector Database:
   This stores your private data (PDFs, company docs, product info) as mathematical vectors.
   It allows the chatbot to look up relevant information based on meaning, not just keywords.

4. LLM:
   The model itself (e.g., GPT-4, Claude, or Llama 2). It takes the user's question and the relevant
   data fetched from the vector database and generates a human-like answer.

5. Conversation Memory:
   A standard database (like Redis or SQL) that stores the last few exchanges of the chat so the bot
   remembers what you just said.


High-Level Flow (RAG)

1. Ingestion:
   You upload a document (e.g., Company Policy.pdf). The system chunks it into paragraphs, converts
   them into vectors using the embedding model, and saves them in the vector database.

2. Retrieval:
   The user asks, "What is the policy on remote work?" The system converts this question into a
   vector and searches the vector database for the most similar chunks of text.

3. Generation:
   The system sends a prompt to the LLM using the retrieved policy chunks.

4. Response:
   The LLM generates the answer using only the facts provided.


Q3) Vector Databases

A vector database is a specialized database designed to store, manage, and search embeddings.
Computers cannot understand the meaning of text; they only understand numbers. An embedding is a
long list of numbers (a vector) that represents the semantic meaning of a piece of text.


Hypothetical Problem & Selection

The Problem: Rapid-Scale Customer Support Bot

Scenario:
I’m the CTO of a fast-growing e-commerce startup.

Goal:
Build a chatbot that answers customer questions about 5,000+ products and shipping policies.

Traffic:
Spiky (huge traffic during Black Friday, low traffic otherwise).

Team:
Small engineering team (3 developers), very little DevOps experience.

Requirement:
Must be live in 2 weeks.


The Selection: Pinecone

If I were to select a vector database for this specific problem, I would choose Pinecone.

1. Fully Managed (Serverless):
   Pinecone is a Database-as-a-Service. You do not need to provision servers, manage shards, or worry
   about scaling clusters.

2. Scalability:
   It handles the Black Friday problem natively and scales automatically.

3. Developer Experience:
   It integrates easily with LangChain and OpenAI and provides a simple API for rapid development.
"""
